[New Entry] C#: System.Math (#1327)
Codecademy/docs: content/c-sharp/concepts/math-functions/math-functions.md

---
Title: 'Math Functions'
Description: 'Common mathematical functions can be performed using the System.Math class.'
Subjects:
- 'Code Foundations'
- 'Computer Science'
Tags:
- 'Libraries'
- 'Arithmetic'
- 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
- 'learn-c-sharp'
- 'paths/build-web-apps-with-asp-net'
---

**Mathematical functions** can be performed using the System.Math class. System.Math is a static class that is included within .NET as part of the `System` namespace. [.NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/dotnet/what-is-dotnet) is a free, cross-platform, open source developer platform created by Microsoft.

## Syntax

The Math class can be accessed by including the System namespace within a .cs file by adding the following line:

```cs
//Include the System namespace
using System;
```

The Math class is static and is accessed without needing to create an instance.

## Example

> 

Reviewer: Add a quick explanation of what the following example is 
```suggestion

The following example uses the `Math.Pow()` method to return the result of 4 raised to the power of 2:

```

```cs
//Include the System namespace
using System;

public class Example 
{
	public static void Main(string[] args)
	{
		//Raise 4 to power of 2
		double x = Math.Pow(4,2);
		
		System.Console.WriteLine("x = {0}", x);
		//Output: x = 16
	}
}
```

> In cases where access to System.Math is required but access to the entire System namespace is not. The following syntax can be used instead:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where access to System.Math is required but access to the entire System namespace is not. The following example uses an alternative syntax and returns the floor of `3/2` using the `System.Math.Floor()` method:
```
